Glossary
Project Management 
Terms and Definitions 
Course 5


A
Acceptance criteria: The checklist the project manager uses to decide whether a story is done

Adaptation: Adjusting project, product, or processes to minimize any further deviation or issues; one of the three pillars of Scrum

Agile Manifesto: A collection of four values and 12 principles that define the mindset that all Agile teams should strive for

Agile project management: An approach to project and team management that embodies “agility” based on the Agile Manifesto

Ambiguity: A state where conditions and root causes of events or circumstances are unclear, leading to the possibility of misunderstanding





B
Backlog refinement: The act of keeping the Backlog prioritized, estimated, and described so the Scrum Team can operate effectively

Burndown chart: A visual that measures time against the amount of work done and amount of work remaining

Business agility: Refers to incorporating Agile principles into the wide sphere of management

Business collaboration: The concept that collaborating with customers gets critical business information to the team immediately, allowing them to adjust and 
adapt new information instantly; one of the four themes of the Agile principles





C
Capacity: The amount of work a team can handle in a given amount of time

Case studies: In-depth, data-driven analyses of a business, community, or organization

Change control board: A formal and rigorous process to manage any changes to requirements

Change management: The process of getting people to adopt a new product, process, or value system

Coaching: A two-way communication style aimed at influencing and developing employees’ skills, motivation, and judgment

Complexity: Refers to the high number of interrelated forces, issues, organizations, and factors that would influence a project

Continuous integration and continuous refactoring: The Extreme Programming practice of merging product changes into a shared version several times a day in order 
to get quick feedback on the quality of the code or product

CSV file: A file type that holds a spreadsheet’s data; stands for “Comma Separated Value” because it uses commas to separate values

Cynefin framework: A framework used for measuring project complexity; pinpoints five sections of complexity that various projects may fall into: obvious, complex, 
complicated, chaotic, and disorder





D
Daily Scrum: A brief meeting of up to 15 minutes that takes place every day of the Sprint to inspect progress toward the goal; also called a stand-up

Definition of Done: An agreed-upon set of items that must be completed before a project or user story can be considered complete

Deliverable: A tangible outcome from a project

Development Team: In Scrum, the people who do the work to build the product; also called Developers

DevOps: An organizational and cultural movement that aims to increase software delivery velocity, improve service reliability, and build shared ownership among 
software stakeholders

Disciplined Agile Delivery (DAD): A hybrid approach that combines the strategies from various Agile frameworks, including Kanban, LeSS, Lean Development, Extreme
Programming,  and Agile Modeling; guides people through process-related decisions and helps develop a scaled Agile strategy based on context and desired outcomes





E
Empiricism: The idea that true knowledge comes from actual, lived experience

Epic: A group or collection of user stories

Extreme Programming (XP): A methodology that aims to improve product quality and the ability to respond to changing customer needs; takes best practices for
the development process to extreme levels





F
Five values of Scrum: The core values that guide how Scrum Teams work and behave: commitment, courage, focus, openness, and respect

Flow: A core principle of Kanban that aims to maximize efficiency





I
I.N.V.E.S.T: Acronym for the criteria each user story should meet; stands for: independent, negotiable, valuable, estimable, small, and testable

Incremental: Describes work that is divided into smaller chunks that build on one another

Influencer: Someone who is able to lead and influence others to change their behaviors, hearts, and minds to produce meaningful, sustainable results

Inspection: A timely check toward the outcome of a Sprint Goal to detect undesirable variances; one of the three pillars of Scrum

Iterative: Refers to repeating cycles of delivery





K
Kanban: A methodology that provides visual feedback to everyone who might be interested in the status of the work in progress; displays the progress of a project
as “to do,” “in progress,” and “done”





L
Large-Scale Scrum (LeSS): A framework that aims to maximize the Scrum Team’s ability to deliver value and reduce waste in larger organizations

Lean: A methodology in which the main principle is the removal of waste within an operation





M
Managing: The act of overseeing the work of others; can include onboarding and orienting new employees, conducting meetings, delegating tasks and assignments, 
monitoring progress and performance against those tasks, making decisions, and dealing with conflicts

Minimum viable product (MVP): A version of a product with just enough features to satisfy early customers

Mission: A short statement that stays constant for the team throughout the project and gives them something to work toward





O
Organizational culture: Describes shared workplace values and shows up in people’s behaviors, activities, the way they communicate, and how they work with each 
other





P
Pair Programming: The XP practice that refers to when two team members work together at the same time on one task

Product Backlog: The single authoritative source for things a team works on; contains all of the features, requirements, and activities associated with
deliverables to achieve the goal of the project

Product Goal: The desired future state of the product; can serve as a target for the Scrum Team to plan against

Product increment: What is produced after a given Sprint

Product Owner: In Scrum, the role responsible for maximizing the value of the product and the work of the team

Product requirements document: A document that lists the scope and requirements of the project; used in Waterfall project management

Product roadmap: A visualization or document that provides a high-level view of the expected product, its requirements, and an estimated schedule for reaching 
milestones

Product vision: Defines what the product is, how it supports the customer’s business strategy, and who will use it; makes clear what outcomes the team is 
responsible for and where their boundaries are





R
Relative estimation: A comparison of the effort for a task to the effort for another task

Releasable: Refers to when the team has developed a minimum viable product of a given feature or requirement

Release plans: Indicates the approximate date when the team is expected to release and deliver certain features to the customer or user; contains a release goal,
the list of Backlog items, an estimated release date, and any other relevant dates that impact a release

Requirements: Conditions that must be met or tasks that must be finished to ensure the successful completion of the project

Retrospectives and continuous learning: Refers to striving continuously to learn and adapt to what’s working and what’s not; one of the four themes of the Agile
principles





S
Scaled Agile Framework (SAFe): A Lean-Agile scaling framework that combines concepts from Kanban, Scrum, Extreme Programming (XP), DevOps, and Design Thinking
methodologies; puts the goal of delivering value above all else

Scrum: A framework for developing, delivering, and sustaining complex products

Scrum Master: In Scrum, the role responsible for ensuring the team lives Agile values and principles and follows the processes and practices the team agreed to; 
shares information with the larger project team and helps the team focus on doing their best work

Scrum of Scrums: A technique for integrating the work of multiple, smaller Scrum Teams working on the same project or solution

Solution Design Sprint: An entire Sprint spent working solely on the solution design

Spotify model: The Spotify organization’s version of the Agile approach; focuses on culture, team autonomy, communication, accountability, and quality to increase 
agility

Sprint: A timeboxed iteration where a planned amount of work is done

Sprint Backlog: The set of Product Backlog items that are selected to be completed during the upcoming Sprint

Sprint Planning: Refers to when the entire Scrum Team comes together to map out what will be done during the Sprint

Sprint Retrospective: An essential meeting of up to three hours for the Scrum Team to take a step back, reflect, and identify improvements about how to work
together as a team

Sprint Review: A meeting with the entire Scrum Team where the product is demonstrated to determine which aspects are finished and which aren’t

Stacey Matrix: A framework developed to help project managers identify the complexities of their environment so they can adapt their style of decision-making;
enables a project manager to consider the knowns and unknowns within their project based on implementation and requirements

Story points: A method for estimating user stories, tasks, and backlog items by assigning a point value based on effort and risk 





T
T-shirt sizes: A way to estimate what is needed for a work effort in terms of time, budget, and energy by categorizing it as XS, S, M, L, XL, or XXL

Team dynamics and culture: Refers to creating an effective team culture that is inclusive, supportive, and empowering; one of the four themes of the Agile 
principles

Three pillars of Scrum: The foundational concepts on which Scrum is based: transparency, inspection, and adaptation

Timebox: A Scrum concept that refers to the estimated duration for an event

Transparency: Making the most significant aspects of the work visible to those responsible for the outcome; one of the three pillars of Scrum





U
Uncertainty: A lack of predictability or high potential for surprise

User story: A short, simple description of a feature told from the perspective of the user





V
Value delivery: Refers to delivering the work as quickly as possible to get feedback and mitigate time risk; one of the four themes of the Agile principles

Value roadmap: An Agile way of mapping out the timelines and requirements for the product-development process

Velocity: A measure of the amount of work a team can take on during a single Sprint

Volatility: The rate of change and churn in a business or situation

VUCA: The conditions that affect organizations in a changing and complex world; stands for volatility, uncertainty, complexity, and ambiguity





W

Waterfall project management: A project management methodology that refers to the sequential or linear ordering of phases

Work-in-progress (WIP) limit: A constraint on how many work items are actively being worked on at any given time








