Week 3 - Meeting: Retrospective
Below is the transcript of a retrospective meeting with the following people: 

Peta (Project Manager)

Carter (Executive Chef)

Gilly (General Manager, North)

Zane (Kitchen Manager, North)

Alex (General Manager, Downtown)

Larissa (Kitchen Manager, Downtown)

Seydou (Restaurant Consultant)



Peta (Project Manager): Hi everyone! Thanks for taking the time to meet so we can debrief about the tablet test launch and our progress on the project so far.
We’re one step closer to the official launch! Before we begin our discussion, I’d just like to say that I want everyone to feel like they're in a safe space 
here. Please feel free to share whatever you can in order to help us improve this process. Does anyone want to start with something they think went well or
something we could improve?

Alex (General Manager, Downtown): I think it went pretty well! We got all the tablets installed and working at my location. 

Peta: Great! Gilly, what about your location?

Gilly (General Manager, North): Same here. It seemed like all the guests got the hang of the tablets and that payments worked for the most part. One area we 
could still improve is table turn time. We didn’t see as much of a decrease as we wanted to in that area.

Alex: Yeah, same with us. The food came out on time, but table turn time stayed about the same. 

Peta: Hmm, thanks for that. Maybe hearing about the kitchen’s experience can provide some insight. Larissa or Zane, what are your thoughts?

Zane (Kitchen Manager, North): Tickets came through at a good pace and were easy to keep track of. But even though the ticket flow was smooth, there were still 
orders that got sent back. So, that’s still an issue that needs to be addressed.

Larissa (Kitchen Manager, Downtown): Yes, we noticed that as well. Not as many as before, but there were still some food orders that got sent back. On the plus 
side, we’ve already started implementing some updates to kitchen operations as a result of the new ticket flow, and we’re really happy with them.

Peta: This is great feedback. And that’s interesting about the food orders. I’ll be sure to prioritize this issue for further analysis. Also happy to hear that 
there have been some helpful updates to the kitchen operations! Maybe we can set up some time later to discuss them further. Seydou, what’s your take on things? 
Anything on the technical front?

Seydou (Restaurant Consultant): I know this doesn’t seem like good news, but we discovered a few technical issues during the POS integration process. The good 
part is that we were able to address them quickly and get them fixed.! There will always be routine maintenance issues that pop up—it just comes with the territory.
But they’re usually easy to manage once you identify what type of issue you’re dealing with, and that’s what we were able to do!

Peta: That’s great news! We can also update the process manual so that the solution is easy to find next time that issue comes up. In fact, maybe there’s a 
technical issue that’s affecting ticket accuracy. Seydou, can you check on that? 

Seydou: Sure thing.

Peta: For my part, the weekly calls with vendors helped us stay on track and clarify task dependencies. I’ll make a recommendation that they keep this cadence 
for the next series of rollouts. Also, the survey was able to capture meaningful data, which shows that we listen to our customers. Fortunately, the results 
indicate that we met most of our customer satisfaction standards. 

Seydou: We didn’t get many participants for the birthday club though. This data will be helpful for future research, so I’m proactively working to grow the
participant list. I’m also working with the designer to update the content on the website and the tablets so it’s clearer what the program is, what we’re asking,
and how people can participate.

Peta: That’s good to know, thanks. Anything else about the training process, or how the project is working in general? I noticed that as we started implementing
the tablets and training, we discovered a few internal operational issues that we hadn’t planned for. That impacted the team’s ability to carry out tasks smoothly.
So for the next rollout, we want to do a better job of understanding each location’s history before planning gets underway. That way we can account for things we 
might need to address ahead of time.

Seydou: I’d also like to add that tablet implementation took just a little bit longer than we hoped. There was some vacation time that was unaccounted for, so 
this is a good reminder to make sure we plan things properly based on everyone’s availability.

Zane: That makes sense! Kind of related to that, we’d like to do a bit more to help the back of house staff scale up their operations before the main launch. We 
want everyone to be prepared to handle a larger volume of orders.

Larissa: Good point, Zane. We also noticed there’s a lack of understanding between what the front of house staff does and the back of house staff does. I think 
if we take time to share those experiences it will help everyone work together more effectively. It would also reduce the tendency to blame one another if issues
come up.

Alex: Thanks for bringing that up. We might want to take a look at the waitstaff training process, too. Maybe we should develop a more comprehensive training
session, or even break the training up into two parts. We could take the opportunity to address other aspects of daily service operations in addition to how to
use the tablets. 

Peta: Great—this was so helpful, everyone. I know our time’s up, so we’ll leave things here. Thank you so much for all the thoughtful feedback! 

